## 3.3  Data Formats

Intel uses the term *word* to refer to a 16-bit data type. Based on this, they refer to 32-bit quantities as *double words* and 64-bit quantities as *quad words*. Here are the sizes of C data type in x86-64: 

| C declaration | Intel data type  | Assembly-code suffix | Size(bytes) |
| ------------- | ---------------- | -------------------- | ----------- |
| char          | Byte             | b                    | 1           |
| short         | Word             | w                    | 2           |
| int           | Double Word      | l                    | 4           |
| long          | Quad Word        | q                    | 8           |
| char *        | Quad Word        | q                    | 8           |
| float         | Single precision | s                    | 4           |
| double        | Double precision | l                    | 8           |

## 3.4  Accessing Information

### 3.4.1 Operand Specifies 

Most instructions have one or more *operands* specifying the source values to use in performing an operation and the destination location into which to place the result. 

The first type of operands, *immediate*, is for constant values. In assembly code, these are written with a `$` followed by an integer using standard C notation. 

The second type is *register*. We use the notation $r_a$ to denote an arbitary register $a$ and indicate its value with the reference $R[r_a]$. 

The thrid type of operand is a *memory* reference, where we access some memory location according to a computed address, often called the *effective address*. We use the notion $M[Addr]$ to denote a value stored in memory starting at address $Addr$. The most general form is $Imm(r_b,r_i,s)$, where the effective address is given by $Imm+R[r_b]+R[r_i]\cdot s$. 

### 3.4.2 Data Movement Instructions 

Among the most heavily used instructions are those that copy data from one location to another. The MOV class consists of four instructions: movb, movw, movl and movq. They operate on data of different sizes: 1, 2, 4 and 8 bytes respectively. 

x86-64 imposes the restriction that a move instruction can't have both operands refer to memory locations. Therefore, copying a value from one memory location to another requires two instructions and a register. 

